First- size of advertising/usage via num theaters
Use boxofficemojo.com to measure number of movie theaters, as well as box office per movie theater.
What does this correlate with?
Can pull budget from there as well.
Budget --> num theaters correlation possible?


Are certain genres more reliable?
Measure longevity of a movie; likely in weeks. Log drop off?
Are certain genres more international than others? (marketing company?)
Reviews?

LEAVE OUT THE KING'S SPEECH IT'S A NIGHTMARE
OSCAR BUMP- BIG CHANGE FOR ONE WEEK IN jOKER
Column- presence in Oscars. 

-Do certain genres stay in theaters longer (and so box office return predicts return more poorly)? 
-Do consumer reviews predict how long genres stay in theaters? Use Metacritic, filtering for early reviews? 
-Does movie budget affect that?
-MPAA rating?
-Maybe measure- drop off over first week? First two weeks?
-How does average value per theater correlate with number of theaters?

Cut off reviews after the period of looking at box offices
Look at Actors- will learn to handle categorical variables. Take top N actors. For each actor, have a binary column.

Can we measure impact from other movies from the same genre?
Exponential fit?
Linear regression- linearly connected terms.
Can apply nonlinear function to a feature.



You are a theater, deciding how long you want to show a movie. It's the end of the fourth week, and the box office return was great, but Metacritic reviews are mediocre.
The studio is interested in extending your contract; because it's a second run of the movie, it's likely that you will be able to bargain for more favorable terms. 
Do you go for it?
Along similar lines, a movie was released- you passed up on it before, but might be interested in picking it up given the first week box office. Should you?

https://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/movie-distribution1.htm
Leasing model vs. profit-sharing. 
Most models are for profit-sharing. 
Length of engagement... generally renegotiated after 4 weeks.






Cult classics???


-Box office to budget ratio
